WSClean version 3.7
===================

Released 2026-02-16

Summary:

Version 3.7 contains numerous new features, bug fixes and performance improvements. The most substantial new feature is the support of baseline-dependent averaging in the frequency-direction. 

Full change list
----------------
* Full support for :doc:`baseline-dependent averaging <../baseline_dependent_averaging>` in the frequency direction.
* Allow facetted runs on custom polarization selection (e.g. I+V or Q+U).
* Support facetted IDG runs with facet corrections (``-gridder facet-idg``).
* Support for `Sisco <https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.23490>`_ compression of model data.
* New option ``-fit-beam-without-negatives`` which can improve beam fitting in rare cases.
* Add a :doc:`sub-pixel rendering <../sub_pixel_rendering>` option (``-draw-model``).
* Add a new gridder: the w-towers gridder (``-gridder wtowers``).
* Add ``-major-iteration-mode`` option to control Radler's deconvolution strategy.
* Add ``-component-optimization`` option to control Radler's optimization algorithm.
* Support for smearing corrections (still experimental).
* Allow skipping the final prediction-gridding iteration (``-skip-final-iteration``).
* Control number of auto-masked iterations (``-auto-mask-nmiter``).

Bug fixes and refactoring
-------------------------
* Implementation of fast IO MPI mode (using facet-shared reads and writes).
* No longer require the ``DATA`` column to exist in a Casacore MS when imaging other columns.
* Faster beam solution by using the multi-frequency EveryBeam interface.
* Base implementation of an in-memory interface was added. Full support expected in version 3.8.
* Improvement command line checking.
* Fix crash when very small facets are defined.
* Fix the use of ``-no-dirty`` with facets and intervals.
* Turn off deconvolution boosting by default.
* Initialize the model column only when neccessary and with a faster approach (sparse file).
* Fix degridding operation of single-facet runs.
* Fix a skymodel parse issue causing last keyword to be misread.
* Avoid that very small Gaussian sources disappear when rendered.
* Support for new compilers and dependent library versions.
* Support EveryBeam 0.8.x.
